_resources/exploit-development.md, before:

---
title: "Exploit Development"
excerpt: ""

# Table of contents setting
toc: true
toc_label: Table of Contents
toc_icon: file-alt
toc_sticky: true

collection: resources
author_profile: true
---

For exploit development, it is necessary to have a solid grasp of Assembly and C/C++. Maybe also Python. I provided some recommendations on my [coding resources page](https://secnate.github.io/resources/coding/) on how to learn them.
{: style="text-align: justify;"}

Yes, companies [like Microsoft](https://thenewstack.io/microsoft-rust-is-the-industrys-best-chance-at-safe-systems-programming/) have been moving from memory-unsafe languages like C/C++ for critical systems software to memory-safe languages like Rust. However, such migrations take a long time to implement and a significant portion of existing and new third-party codebases will remain in C/C++. And while there have been some recent discussions and rumors about rewriting the Linux kernel in Rust, significant actions haven't been taken yet. I am not even mentioning that there are _plenty_ of bugs that do not involve memory corruption. In other words: there will _still be plenty of juicy targets to attack._
{: .notice--info style="text-align: justify;"}

Afterwards, one can get started with:

# Books

They can be a bit dated but introduce the topic well
{: .notice--info}

- [Hacking: The Art of Exploitation, 2nd Edition](https://www.amazon.com/Hacking-Art-Exploitation-Jon-Erickson-ebook/dp/B004OEJN3I): a gentile introduction to the topic
- [The Shellcoder's Handbook: Discovering and Exploiting Security Holes, 2nd Edition](https://www.amazon.com/The-Shellcoders-Handbook-Discovering-Exploiting/dp/047008023X): an in-depth examination of exploit development across multiple platforms. 
- [A Bug Hunter's Diary: A Guided Tour Through the Wilds of Software Security](https://www.amazon.com/Bug-Hunters-Diary-Software-Security/dp/1593273851)
- [Writing Security Tools and Exploits, 1st Edition](https://www.amazon.com/Writing-Security-Tools-Exploits-Foster/dp/1597499978)

# Websites

Learning resources:
- [Sam Bowe's Exploit Development Class](https://samsclass.info/127/127_F18.shtml)
- [Modern Binary Exploitation - CSCI 4968](https://github.com/RPISEC/MBE)
- [Azeria's ARM Exploitation Tutorials](https://azeria-labs.com/)
- [Corelan's Windows Exploitation Tutorials](https://www.corelan.be/)
- [Fuzzy Security Exploit Tutorials](http://www.fuzzysecurity.com/tutorials.html)
- [OpenSecurity Training](http://opensecuritytraining.info/Training.html)
- [Linux Kernel Hacking Walkthrough](https://blog.lexfo.fr/tag/step-by-step.html)
- [ExploitDev Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/ExploitDev/): One of the more civilized Reddit threads, where one can get help and guidance

Training/Practice Challenges:
- [exploit.education](https://exploit.education/): a well-designed set of binary exploitation teaching challenges with increasingly-progressing difficulty levels
- [ROP Emporium](https://ropemporium.com/)
- [Nightmare](https://guyinatuxedo.github.io/)

Commit message:

Updated the exploit development resources page

_resources/exploit-development.md, after:

---
title: "Exploit Development"
excerpt: ""

# Table of contents setting
toc: true
toc_label: Table of Contents
toc_icon: file-alt
toc_sticky: true

collection: resources
author_profile: true
---

For exploit development, it is necessary to have a solid grasp of Assembly and C/C++. Maybe also Python. I provided some recommendations on my [coding resources page](https://secnate.github.io/resources/coding/) on how to learn them.
{: style="text-align: justify;"}

Yes, companies [like Microsoft](https://thenewstack.io/microsoft-rust-is-the-industrys-best-chance-at-safe-systems-programming/) have been moving from memory-unsafe languages like C/C++ for critical systems software to memory-safe languages like Rust. However, such migrations take a long time to implement and a significant portion of existing and new third-party codebases will remain in C/C++. And while there have been some recent discussions and rumors about rewriting the Linux kernel in Rust, significant actions haven't been taken yet. I am not even mentioning that there are _plenty_ of bugs that do not involve memory corruption. In other words: there will _still be plenty of juicy targets to attack._
{: .notice--info style="text-align: justify;"}

Afterwards, one can get started with:

# Books

They can be a bit dated but introduce the topic well
{: .notice--info}

- [Hacking: The Art of Exploitation, 2nd Edition](https://www.amazon.com/Hacking-Art-Exploitation-Jon-Erickson-ebook/dp/B004OEJN3I): a gentile introduction to the topic
- [The Shellcoder's Handbook: Discovering and Exploiting Security Holes, 2nd Edition](https://www.amazon.com/The-Shellcoders-Handbook-Discovering-Exploiting/dp/047008023X): an in-depth examination of exploit development across multiple platforms. 
- [A Bug Hunter's Diary: A Guided Tour Through the Wilds of Software Security](https://www.amazon.com/Bug-Hunters-Diary-Software-Security/dp/1593273851)
- [Writing Security Tools and Exploits, 1st Edition](https://www.amazon.com/Writing-Security-Tools-Exploits-Foster/dp/1597499978)

# Websites

Learning resources:
- [GLIBC Linux Heap Exploitation - Part I](https://www.udemy.com/course/linux-heap-exploitation-part-1/)
- [Sam Bowe's Exploit Development Class](https://samsclass.info/127/127_F18.shtml)
- [Modern Binary Exploitation - CSCI 4968](https://github.com/RPISEC/MBE)
- [Azeria's ARM Exploitation Tutorials](https://azeria-labs.com/)
- [Corelan's Windows Exploitation Tutorials](https://www.corelan.be/)
- [Fuzzy Security Exploit Tutorials](http://www.fuzzysecurity.com/tutorials.html)
- [OpenSecurity Training](http://opensecuritytraining.info/Training.html)
- [Linux Kernel Hacking Walkthrough](https://blog.lexfo.fr/tag/step-by-step.html)
- [ExploitDev Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/ExploitDev/): One of the more civilized Reddit threads, where one can get help and guidance

Training/Practice Challenges:
- [exploit.education](https://exploit.education/): A well-designed set of binary exploitation teaching challenges with increasingly-progressing difficulty levels
- [ROP Emporium](https://ropemporium.com/)
- [Nightmare](https://guyinatuxedo.github.io/)

# Tools
- [pwntools](https://github.com/Gallopsled/pwntools) and its [documentation](http://docs.pwntools.com/en/stable/): A CTF and exploit development library for scripting exploits rapidly
- [pwndbg](https://github.com/pwndbg/pwndbg) and its [documentation](https://browserpwndbg.readthedocs.io/en/docs/): A user-friendly and exploit-development tailored extension of the GDB debugger 
- [one_gadget finder](https://github.com/david942j/one_gadget): A nifty tool to find the lines of
 code invoking the _system(/bin/sh)_ function. Execution can then be redirected to it to pop a shell!
